Hi everybody and welcome back.
Now this lecture is a nice big chunky one.
So let's get straight in.
And this lecture is all about modifying a list within a function.
So when we pass a list to a function the function can modify that list any changes we make the list
within the function are permanent.
Let's look an example consider an airline checking in system.
So we have two types of passengers passengers that are not checked in on passengers that are checked
in.
So our software is going to do two things.
It's going to list out the passengers who are not checked in.
It's going to take them from the not checked in list and it's going to move them in to a chaplain list
so passengers who are being confirmed to check in we're going to do this using two functions each one
doing a specific job.
One will handle do not check them passengers.
And one will handle the checked passengers and each will print out a summary of passengers not checked
in and checked in.
So let's get started.
That's the final function.
So the passengers
are going to have two parameters in here not checked and not checked and checked in
OK.
So let's give it description.
Simulate passengers who are not checked in.
Now here we go.
So while
not checked in now we're going to create a new variable here.
So why not check in our current passenger.
So imagine you're walking up to the check in desk at an airport.
You are the current passenger.
So our current passenger
equals not checked in.
Obviously you are not checked in yet you have just walked up to the check in desk.
So what we want to do are not checked in passengers as pop each one from the list as they check in.
So let's just add in a comment here simulates checking a passenger in
and how do we do that.
Well we give a print message print open up a quote checking in passenger
and then we have colon space plus current passenger
checked in pand Corrin passenger OK.
Let's just briefly run through this wild statement again.
So while are not checked and passengers.
So for any passengers who are not checked in.
Create a new variable called current passenger and assign that variable.
One passenger at a time from are not checked in list so are popping off from the list one at a time.
Next.
Print out a message that says checking in passenger and current passenger.
Then once that's done move the current passenger into our checked end list so that all sounds pretty
straightforward and exactly what would happen if you were a passenger who is checking in at an airport.
Now our second function show checked
I spelt that right check in passengers.
So you can tell straight away what this function is going to do.
Checked in
don't forget your colon.
Open up your comments show all the passengers who have checked in.
Know you've checked in at the front desk you've obviously been moved to checked in list because you've
got your boarding pass or whatever it might be.
And then you've gone through security.
So print
backslash and nice new line the following passengers.
Have been checked in
OK.
What's next.
Well for passengers in checked in or checked enlist print
passengers something similar to what we've seen before.
Now we want to create our two lists not checked in equals.
We're going to do one passenger at the moment which is going to be myself just to make sure that we're
working OK.
Tony Staunton
checked in is empty.
Why is it empty.
Because we're going to move to the list of non checked in passengers to checked in.
So wandless will become the order essentially.
Now we call two functions.
First function is passengers and in that function we have to we passed two arguments not checked in
and checked in.
Next we call a second function.
Show checked in passengers were only passing that one argument checked in.
Now there's a lot going on there.
Let's run this and keep our fingers crossed.
And we have an error at line 18.
That's the for passengers checked in.
I forgot my colon.
It's always one of my downfalls for getting the call and I don't know why going too fast.
I suppose I do run it again like 19 print passengers because I forgot my colon it didn't invent.
Let's try it again.
Third time lucky.
There we go check again passenger Tony Staunton.
The following passengers have been checked in.
Tony Staunton.
OK so let's just expand out our list here.
Now let's go with Sam.
Mary Murphy
let's go which Frank Waters and let's add one more for luck and let's go with Sam Smith no relation
to the singer.
Let's run this again.
There we go.
Checking in passenger Sam Smith.
Frank Waters Mary Murphy Tony Staunton the fallen passengers have been checked into the space.
And Frank so we can just remove that.
So again let's just run through this quickly through this code to make sure we understand exactly what's
going on.
So we start off by defining our first function and this function is going to simulate passengers who
are not checked in.
Our function has two parameters not checked in and checked in.
So while we have passengers in our not checked in the current passenger equals not checked in pop.
So no one passenger at a time from our checked and not checked in list to the current passenger then
print a message saying checking in passenger current passenger next move the current passenger into
our checked in list.
OK.
Simple.
Well kind of simple.
Following that we have our second function show checked in passengers that has one parameter checked
in.
So our comment here so all the passengers who have checked in print the following passengers checked
So four passengers in our checked in list print passengers.
So that's a simple loop.
We're looping through the passengers and are checked in list until there are none left.
Following that we create two lists not checked in and checked in and then finally we call two functions
pass that the arguments needed not checked in and checked in which are lists essentially our first list
as a list of three or four not checked them passengers.
On our second list is empty.
But when we go through our functions the second list checked in is full of our passengers and other
passengers.
A lot of checked in checked out whatever it might be.
So run to this function and through this program a couple of times to make sure that you understand
it and you have any questions please do not hesitate to contact me.
Thank you.
And I'll see you in the next lecture.